How can power be optimized in WBAN:
It is a wireless network so different types of wireless short-range technologies can be involved in different stages. 
In this, we use different technologies like Bluetooth, ZigBee, WIFI, etc.

So, We can send EMF signals to the human body up to 3 GHz.
The EMF is calculated by SAR (Specific Area Network)
1. It can be up to 1.6 W/Kg in FCC Countries.
2. In the remaining countries it can be up to 2 W/Kg.

In the Medical band, We use 402 - 405 MHz of EMF. This is considered as low-power.
In the high-level medical band, We use 1427 - 1432 MHz, which has strict power limits to minimize tissue absorption.
In the ISM (Industrial, Scientific, and Medical) band, We use 2.4 GHz. So this isn't harmful to the human body. 

According to a study,

Technology                Bluetooth     ZigBee     Wi-Fi     UWB
Time taken (Micro sec)        4          802       0.018    0.009
Data Rate (M bits)           0.72        0.25        54      110
Efficiency                  94.41        76        97.18     97.94

So according to this,
1. The best one is UMB. But the main disadvantage is it takes a lot of energy.
2. For lower power consumption, ZigBee is best. But it has a low data rate. Makes it very slow. Also, it is not that effective.
3. WIFI offers a high data rate, But the power consumption can impact SAR value.

So for the human body, The optimal one would be using Bluetooth as it is a safer and more energy-efficient option.

Bluetooth 5.0 and newer versions have introduced long-range modes(up to 800 feet)
Bluetooth is of two types:
1. Class 2 - It has a range of 33 feet. Which makes it low power consumption. 
2. Class 1 - It has a range of 330 feet. Which makes it More power consumption.
Disadvantages of using Bluetooth:
1. There can be interference issues as it uses 2.4GHz frequency.
2. Some security issues.

These security issues can be rectified by making sure of some things:
1. Using the latest version
2. Disable discovering mode
3. Using String Authentication
4. Limiting Bluetooth use in sensitive environments
5. Monitoring device connections

* Keeping Bluetooth in non-discoverable mode when not actively paring can reduce the risk of attacks.
* Limiting Bluetooth use in sensitive areas to reduce the risk of interception or attacks.
* Monitoring the Bluetooth device is most important. Eliminating suspicious and unused connections can help.
 
We can use some methods to add an extra layer of security to a Bluetooth device:
1. Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
2. Implementing Device Whitelisting
3. Using session keys with short lifetimes.
4. Out-of-band (OOB) Paring
5. Biometrics
6. Disable it when not in use
7. Monitoring
8. Updating firewall regularly
9. Role-bases access control
10. Proximity-based security.

Session Keys: 
It is an encryption and decryption key that is generated to ensure the security of communication sessions based on a user and a computer, or between two computers.

Out-of-band Paring:
It refers to using an Out-of-Band (OOB) method like NFC or QR code to securely discover devices and exchange cryptographic keys for Bluetooth pairing, reducing risks like eavesdropping or MITM attacks.

Role-based access control:
It refers to the idea of assigning permissions to users based on their role within an organization.

Proximity-based security:
It refers to security systems that assess the validity of access requests without requiring physical contact with a person.

Increasing the range of a Bluetooth device:
The range of the Bluetooth device can be increased,
1. Bluetooth 5.0 Long Range Mode
This increases the range of Bluetooth by 4X. The power consumption is a bit higher than Bluetooth. It is mainly designed for power efficiency.
2. Optimization Antenna Design:
It increases signal efficiency. There will be no effect on the power we are using.
3. Environmental Optimization: 
Removing the obstacles can increase the range of a Bluetooth device. No more power is used.
4. Using Mesh network:
It is not efficient. Uses high power.

Finally, Using Bluetooth 5.0 Long Range Mode is more effective. With that also reducing the obstacles helps a lot.


Conclusion:
Overall, Using Bluetooth helps in SAR Value and EMF Values. So using Bluetooth is a better option. 
Also in Bluetooth, We use the latest (5.0) version with long-range mode with obstacle removal helps a lot in range.
Adding some extra layer of security helps in the security of Bluetooth devices.
By this, we can conclude using Bluetooth with these features optimizes power efficiency.